My family started studying with witnesses in New Jersey.
My parents had been very diligent in helping us to appreciate not only Bible principles,
but characters in the Bible that could be a role model for us.
It helped us to know that Jehovah cared not only for adult publishers, but for the children
that we're serving him.
When you went out in the ministry, it became such a common thing.
The police would come and pick you up.
If they couldn't track down the parents, they would put the children in jail knowing
that eventually the parents would have to come looking for them.
The police would use scare tactics that said, there's rats in the cell.
Is that where you want to be?
Anything to make you fearful, to intimidate you, to tell them where your parents were.
They'd put us in the jail and in order to build our faith, we would see.
We didn't have kingdom melodies back then, so we used to make up songs.
And that would keep us focused on what we were doing there.
I reached the age of 18, my parents were agreeable to my accepting and assignment.
And in those years, because of the racial issue in the south, there were so many areas in
the south where they didn't have kingdom holes that the colored could attend.
So if you were free and you would accept an assignment, this society usually sent us
to the south.
My parents were both born in the south, so they were able to tell us what to expect to
keep the culture shock from being so great.
I was assigned to pioneer in Andalusia, Alabama, based on all of the matters that pertain
to integration and segregation.
This was a hotbed for testing those issues.
And so I was concerned about whether I had the fiber just to work under those circumstances.
The field was wide open.
There were so many in the area that had no knowledge of Jehovah's Witnesses and very receptive
to the message.
That part of our ministry was very rewarding.
We had some very strong and helpful brothers that Jehovah was using to get his people, no
matter what color, to get them to appreciate him and his purpose.
When you focus on these things, the suggestions and the ideas that the brothers would help
you to appreciate, how to deal with issues that taught us for one thing.
The whole purpose of the Club Club's clan is to intimidate.
They feel that if they frighten you enough, you will leave.
Satan has always used methods to try to intimidate.
But we would make it a practice to stay, to hold our place.
We were in street work, we stay right there.
And of course, as they passed, they had their remarks to make.
But we just stood there.
And I think back on my youth, there isn't anything that I was able to participate in that
I came to regret.
There were always blessings that went along with it.
You make yourself available, Jehovah would use you.
Jehovah is always there as a support.
There isn't anything that he directs his organization to do that doesn't receive his support.
So if we are challenged with a new assignment or if we feel inadequate about it, if we look
to Jehovah, with Jehovah, you can't fail.